---
layout: post
title: Getting started with Google Summer of Code and Web Development
---

From past four months I have faced a lot of challenges. Some of them were starting contribution into the open source, finding a project to work upon, passing the rigorous pull request reviewing process, communicating with community and many more but thankfully with my constant efforts I was able to pass all those challenges and finally got selected into <a href="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/" target="_blank">Google Summer Of Code </a> under <a href=" htps://github.com/fossasia" target="_blank">FOSSASIA</a> organisation. The happiness of being part of such a prestigious program was immense. I am now part of FOSSASIA organisation. (Yay :D)

Being an android developer by profession I applied for one of the android project under the organisation which was about enhancing and adding more features to the Open event android app but there comes the twist though I was selected based on my proposal and contributions in the open event android project but the community asked me to work on a new project <a href="https://github.com/fossasia/open-event-frontend" target="_blank">Open Event Frontend </a> which is about developing the frontend for the  <a href="https://github.com/fossasia/open-event-orga-server" target="_blank"> Open Event API Server </a> where organisers,speakers and attendees can sign-up and perform various functions which is written in Javascript framework the <a href="https://www.emberjs.com">ember.js</a>. 
I have never tried my hands on web development so I was little scared of how I’ll be able to contribute to the project but thanks to the community bonding period which is currently going on and my mentor to motivate me to learn the concepts of web development during this period and get the hands-on experience by contributing to the project by fixing small bugs. The  community has been very supportive and motivating till now. Though I have not started bug fixing until now due to lack of knowledge. In the last week due to the end semester examination, I was not able to devote much time but I have learned the basics of HTML, CSS and JavaScript and a bit about the ember.js to get the deep insight of front end development. I will now focus on learning the ember.js more since the project is developed using the ember.js framework. After learning the concepts at once I’ll focus on bug fixing so that I can get hands on experience of working on the front end. 

In the end of this post, I am confident enough that I will start fixing more bugs in the upcoming week and deep dive into the project. 
